Update devbox for ces developers (#1)
cloudogu/ces-devboxes: README.md

# CES-Devboxes

This repository contains ansible roles to setup a new development machine for the Cloudogu EcoSystem developers.

The playbook will install and configure the following tools:

**IDEs**

- IntelliJ Ultimate
- VSCode with some convenient plugins

**Working with VMs**

- Virtualbox (supports Secure-Boot)
- VMWare Workstation Pro 16 (supports Secure-Boot)
- Hashicorp
  - packer
  - terraform
  - vagrant

**Terminal**

> Installs zsh with some preconfigured things and plugins. See [.zshrc](config/zshrc) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Installs zsh with some preconfigurations and plugins. See [.zshrc](config/zshrc) for more information.
```

**Browser**

> The devbox install Chrome and Firefox as Browsers. It also adds some basic extensions and bookmarks into Chrome.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The devbox installs Chrome and Firefox as browsers. It also adds some basic extensions and bookmarks into Chrome.
```

**SDK Manager**

- Jabba with preinstalled Java8 and Java11
  - Also adds two aliases `java8` and `java11` for a convenient switch between versions.
- gvm with newest Go version being installed
- nvm with newest Node version being installed

**k8s**

- kubectl
- gcloud
- k9s

**Recording tools**

- gif image optimization: `gifsicle`
- gif screen recording: `peek`
- video screen recording: `kazam`

**Snippet Manager with a preset of handy snippets**

> The snippet manager pet is installed. You can edit your snippets with `pet edit` and search and apply snippets in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The snippet manager ´pet´ is installed. You can edit your snippets with `pet edit` and search and apply snippets in the
```

CLI with the hotkey `CTRL+S`.

## Tested Operating Systems

> * Ubuntu (tested on 22.04)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ubuntu 22.04
```
The headline already said that these are tested versions

## Prerequisites

> 

Reviewer: You also need a gpg key installed if you want to use its key ID in the vars.yml

Reviewer 2: Done

> * Ansible >= 2.6

Reviewer: Do you really need this preinstalled? It is automatically installed by the devbox-script, right? So you don't have to worry about it here.

Reviewer 2: Yeah. I Removed it.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Install via `sudo apt install ansible`
```
But maybe this is not necessary because the script installes it by itself

Reviewer 2: I think it is not necessary

## Getting started

> 1. Copy the `vars_template.yml` file from the root directory as `vars.yml` and change the required fields accordingly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Copy the `vars_template.yml` file to `vars.yml` and change the required fields accordingly:
```

>   - `mail`: Your E-Mail (xxx.xxx@cloudogu.com) used for git commits

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `mail`: Your e-mail address (xxx.xxx@cloudogu.com) used for git commits
```

  - `displayName`: Name used to display for git commits

>   - `gpgKey`: Your gpg key id. Cen be normally extracted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `gpgKey`: Your gpg key id. Can be normally extracted with
```

>   - with (`gpg --card-status | grep "sec#" | sed "s|.*\(0x[0-9A-Z]*\)\s.*|\1|g"`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - `gpg --card-status | grep "sec#" | sed "s|.*\(0x[0-9A-Z]*\)\s.*|\1|g"`
```

>   - `user`: The current name of the user

Reviewer: What is this name used for?

Reviewer 2: It is used for your gitconfig. This is the name given as the author when creating a commit.

Reviewer: How is it different from the displayName?

  - `mokutils.password`: The password used to import the newly generated MOK (Machine-Owner-Key).

> 2. Run the devbox: `.\devbox`. After that it will ask for your sudo password and then apply the ansible playbook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run the devbox: `./devbox`. After that it will ask for your sudo password and then apply the ansible playbook.
```

3. After executing the
   devbox you should reboot your machine. The machine management tool should start (blue screen). You should proceed by
  - `Press Any Key`
  - `Enroll MOK`
  - `Continue`
  - `yes`
  - Type the configured `mokutils.password`
  - `OK`
  - `Continue boot`

**Note:**

It can happen that VirtualBox and VMWare could not load the required modules because of secure boot. Sometimes it can
happen that the generated MOK key ist not correctly imported after the devbox. However, this can be done manually fairly

> easy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
easily:
```

```
sudo mokutil --import /mok/CES_MOCK.dep
```

> Then you need to provide a password. After that reboot the machine and enroll the MOK key with the password you choose

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then you need to provide a password. After that reboot the machine and enroll the MOK key with the password you chose
```
